Substrate bridge documentation (#44)
sora-xor/sora-docs: src/substrate-bridge.md

# Substrate bridge

## Main components

> SORA 2 interaction with Polkadot/Kusama and other relay chains and it visualised on the following diagram:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SORA 2 interaction with Polkadot/Kusama and other relay chains is visualised in the following diagram:
```

<!-- TODO apply the styles -->

![](./assets/substrate-bridge-components-svg.svg)

<details>
  <summary>UML diagram code</summary>

```

@startuml

skinparam component {
  BorderColor white
  BackgroundColor red
}

skinparam interface {
  BorderColor black
  BackgroundColor red
}

Component [SORA mainnet]
interface "Federated\nbridge" as FB

cloud {
  [SORA parachain] as SP
  [Relay chain\n(Polkadot/Kusama)] as RC
  interface "XCM" as XCM1
  interface "XCM" as XCM2
  [Other parachains] as OP
}

[SORA mainnet] - FB
FB - SP
SP - XCM1
XCM1 - RC
RC - XCM2
XCM2 - OP
@enduml

```

</details>

> Let's go throught all the components mentioned on the figure:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's go through all the components mentioned in the figure:
```

### SORA mainnet

> A standalone network developed on top of the Substrate blockchain that is a main object of this documentation. It is having all the incoming and outgoing messages to other systems going though the **Federated Bridge**, which is a central gateway to an ecosystem from the outside.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A standalone network developed on top of the Substrate blockchain is the main object of this documentation. It has all the incoming and outgoing messages to other systems crossing the **Federated Bridge**, which is a central gateway to an external ecosystem.
```

### Federated Bridge

You can read about the Federated Bridge in [Interoparibility](./interoperability)

### SORA parachain

> The SORA Parachain serves as a blockchain-gateway, allowing seamless integration between SORA and any relay chain ecosystem. It facilitates automatic token registration and transfers, eliminating the need for users to send tokens via extrinsics on the SORA Parachain. By design, SORA Parachain eliminates the requirement for additional transaction signing. The Parachain maintains a comprehensive record of tokens that can be transferred, with registration information stored in the XCMApp pallet. This information includes the mapping between SORA Mainnet AssetId and XCM Multilocation for each token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The SORA Parachain serves as a blockchain gateway, allowing seamless integration between SORA and any relay chain ecosystem. It facilitates automatic token registration and transfers, eliminating the need for users to send tokens via extrinsics on the SORA Parachain. By design, the SORA Parachain eliminates the requirement for additional transaction signing. The Parachain maintains a comprehensive record of tokens that can be transferred, with registration information stored in the XCMApp pallet. This information includes the mapping between SORA Mainnet AssetId and XCM Multilocation for each token.
```

### Relay chain

> In the Polkadot and Kusama ecosystems, the relaychain refers to the main blockchain network that serves as the backbone for the entire network of connected parachains. It acts as a hub or coordinator for multiple parachains, facilitating their communication and interoperability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the Polkadot and Kusama ecosystems, the relay chain refers to the main blockchain network that serves as the backbone for the entire network of connected parachains. It acts as a hub or coordinator for multiple parachains, facilitating their communication and interoperability.
```

> The relaychain provides several important features, including cross-chain messaging, shared security, scalability, and upgradeability. It enables parachains to communicate with each other through the Cross-Chain Message Passing protocol (usually utilising XCM messaging format), allowing the transfer of assets and data between different chains.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The relay chain provides several important features, including cross-chain messaging (XCM), shared security, scalability, and upgradeability. It enables parachains to communicate with each other through the Cross-Chain Message Passing protocol (usually utilising XCM messaging format), allowing the transfer of assets and data between different chains.
```

### Parachains

> Parachains are specialized blockchains that connect to the relaychain. They can have their own consensus mechanisms, governance models, and specific functionality. They rely on the relaychain for security and the ability to interact with other parachains within the ecosystem. As the name suggests, SORA parachain is a parachain too.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Parachains are specialized blockchains that connect to the relay chain. They can have their own consensus mechanisms, governance models, and specific functionality. They rely on the relay chain for security and the ability to interact with other parachains within the ecosystem. As the name suggests, the SORA parachain is also a parachain within this architecture.
```

## Common Pallets

There are several common pallets used in the SORA project, providing bridge functionality on both the parachain and Sora Mainnet sides:

> - **SubstrateDispatch**: Developed by Soramitsu ([GitHub link](https://github.com/sora-xor/sora2-common/tree/develop/pallets/dispatch)). This pallet decodes and checks messages, performs runtime calls, and creates a bridge origin for executing XCMApp and SubstrateBridgeApp extrinsics. Only the bridge origin can call these extrinsics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **SubstrateDispatch**: Developed by SORAMITSU ([GitHub link](https://github.com/sora-xor/sora2-common/tree/develop/pallets/dispatch)). This pallet decodes and checks messages, performs runtime calls, and creates a bridge origin to execute XCMApp and SubstrateBridgeApp extrinsics. Only the bridge origin can call these extrinsics.
```

> - **SubstrateBridgeInboundChannel**: Developed by Soramitsu ([GitHub link](https://github.com/sora-xor/sora2-common/tree/develop/pallets/substrate-channel/src/inbound)). This pallet handles the submission of incoming messages. While submitting messages can be called from any account, a relayer is used for this function. It utilizes BeefyLightClient or MultisigVerifier for message verification and SubstrateDispatch for message calling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **SubstrateBridgeInboundChannel**: Developed by SORAMITSU ([GitHub link](https://github.com/sora-xor/sora2-common/tree/develop/pallets/substrate-channel/src/inbound)). This pallet handles the submission of incoming messages. While submitting messages can be called from any account, a relayer is used for this function. It utilizes BeefyLightClient or MultisigVerifier for message verification and SubstrateDispatch for message calling.
```

> - **SubstrateBridgeOutboundChannel**: Developed by Soramitsu ([GitHub link](https://github.com/sora-xor/sora2-common/tree/develop/pallets/substrate-channel/src/outbound)). This pallet is responsible for sending outgoing messages. It is used by SubstrateBridgeApp and XCMApp to send messages to other networks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **SubstrateBridgeOutboundChannel**: Developed by SORAMITSU ([GitHub link](https://github.com/sora-xor/sora2-common/tree/develop/pallets/substrate-channel/src/outbound)). This pallet is responsible for sending outgoing messages. It is used by the SubstrateBridgeApp and XCMApp to send messages to other networks.
```

> ### Sora Mainnet Pallets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### SORA Mainnet Pallets
```

> On the Sora Mainnet side, the following pallets are used:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the SORA Mainnet side, the following pallets are used:
```

> - **SubstrateBridgeApp**: Developed by Soramitsu ([GitHub link](https://github.com/sora-xor/sora2-common/tree/develop/pallets/substrate-app)). This pallet serves as the main entry point for clients to send assets through the bridge. It also sends messages to the parachain (XCMApp) to register assets. The bridge requires bonding of SubstrateBridgeApp on the Mainnet and XCMApp on the Parachain. It utilizes SubstrateBridgeOutboundChannel to send messages through the bridge and is used by SubstrateDispatch to execute messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **SubstrateBridgeApp**: Developed by SORAMITSU ([GitHub link](https://github.com/sora-xor/sora2-common/tree/develop/pallets/substrate-app)). This pallet serves as the main entry point for clients to send assets through the bridge. It also sends messages to the parachain (XCMApp) to register assets. The bridge requires bonding of SubstrateBridgeApp on the Mainnet and XCMApp on the Parachain. It utilizes SubstrateBridgeOutboundChannel to send messages through the bridge and is used by SubstrateDispatch to execute messages.
```

> - **Assets**: Developed by Soramitsu ([GitHub link](https://github.com/sora-xor/sora2-network/tree/master/pallets/assets)). This pallet implements assets on the Sora 2 Mainnet. It is used by SubstrateBridgeApp to register, mint, and burn assets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Assets**: Developed by SORAMITSU ([GitHub link](https://github.com/sora-xor/sora2-network/tree/master/pallets/assets)). This pallet implements assets on the SORA 2 Mainnet. It is used by SubstrateBridgeApp to register, mint, and burn assets.
```

> ### Sora Parachain Components

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### SORA Parachain Components
```

> On the Sora Parachain side, the following components are used:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the SORA Parachain side, the following components are used:
```

> - **XCMApp**: Developed by Soramitsu ([GitHub link](https://github.com/sora-xor/sora2-parachain/tree/develop/pallets/xcm-app)). This pallet establishes the connection between Sora 2 Mainnet and a relay chain/parachains. It maintains a mapping from Sora 2 Mainnet AssetId (a 32-byte array) to a general XCM Multilocation. It enables the transfer of assets between Sora 2 Mainnet and a relay chain/parachain. Only the bridge origin can access the pallet's extrinsics. It utilizes SubstrateBridgeOutboundChannel to send messages through the bridge and is used by SubstrateDispatch to execute messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **XCMApp**: Developed by SORAMITSU ([GitHub link](https://github.com/sora-xor/sora2-parachain/tree/develop/pallets/xcm-app)). This pallet establishes the connection between the SORA 2 Mainnet and a relay chain/parachain. It maintains a mapping from the SORA 2 Mainnet AssetId (a 32-byte array) to a general XCM Multilocation. It enables the transfer of assets between SORA 2 Mainnet and a relay chain/parachain. Only the bridge origin can access the pallet's extrinsics. It utilizes SubstrateBridgeOutboundChannel to send messages through the bridge and is used by SubstrateDispatch to execute messages.
```

- **XTokens**: Developed by the Open Web3 Stack ([GitHub link](https://github.com/open-web3-stack/open-runtime-module-library)). This component is used by XCMApp to send tokens to a relay chain/parachains.

- **XCMExecutor**: Developed by Parity. While not a pallet, it is a crucial component for executing XCM Messages. It utilizes XCMApp as a transactor and AssetId converter.

### Federated Bridge Pallets

The Federated Bridge in SORA relies on the following pallets:

> - **BridgeDataSigner**: Developed by Soramitsu ([GitHub link](https://github.com/sora-xor/sora2-common/tree/develop/pallets/data-signer)). This pallet is responsible for signing bridge data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **BridgeDataSigner**: Developed by SORAMITSU ([GitHub link](https://github.com/sora-xor/sora2-common/tree/develop/pallets/data-signer)). This pallet is responsible for signing bridge data.
```

> - **MultisigVerifier**: Developed by Soramitsu ([GitHub link](https://github.com/sora-xor/sora2-common/tree/develop/pallets/multisig-verifier)). This pallet manages the verification of peers and ECDSA signatures. It utilizes BeefyLightClient for message verification and SubstrateDispatch for message calling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **MultisigVerifier**: Developed by SORAMITSU ([GitHub link](https://github.com/sora-xor/sora2-common/tree/develop/pallets/multisig-verifier)). This pallet manages the verification of peers and ECDSA signatures. It utilizes BeefyLightClient for message verification and SubstrateDispatch for message calling.
```

> - **The Relayer**: Developed by Soramitsu ([GitHub link](https://github.com/sora-xor/sora2-network/tree/master/relayer)). The Relayer is a separate service and not a pallet. It plays a crucial role in the Federated Bridge, passing through messages and holding private keys for signatures, similar to the Beefy bridge implementation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **The Relayer**: Developed by SORAMITSU ([GitHub link](https://github.com/sora-xor/sora2-network/tree/master/relayer)). The Relayer is a separate service and not a pallet. It plays a crucial role in the Federated Bridge, passing through messages and holding private keys for signatures, similar to the Beefy bridge implementation.
```

## Performing a Cross-Chain Transfer

To execute a cross-chain token transfer, a registration process is required beforehand. Token registration involves using the root extrinsics `substrateBridgeApp.registerSidechainAsset` and `substrateBridgeApp.registerThischainAsset`. For instance, to register a native token on the Rococo network, the following procedure is followed:

<!-- TODO provide a more detailed explanation of the XCM message -->

![Image: Example of registering a Rococo native token](./assets/sidechain-token-registration.png)

Similarly, to register a native token from another blockchain as transferable through a parachain, the process is as follows:

![Image: Example of registering a native blockchain for transfer via parachain](./assets/thischain-token-registration.png)

> These extrinsics send messages to the Sora 2 Parachain, enabling the registration of asset mappings. Without this registration, tokens cannot be transferred through the parachain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These extrinsics send messages to the SORA 2 Parachain, enabling the registration of asset mappings. Without this registration, tokens cannot be transferred through the parachain.
```

# Substrate bridge

## Main components

> SORA 2 interaction with Polkadot/Kusama and other relay chains is visualised in the following diagram:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SORA interaction with Polkadot/Kusama and other relay chains is visualised in the following diagram:
```

Reviewer: I removed the 2 here to avoid raising questions about the numbers and why they're used.

![](./assets/substrate-bridge-components-svg.svg)

<details>
  <summary>UML diagram code</summary>

```

@startuml

skinparam component {
  BorderColor white
  BackgroundColor red
}

skinparam interface {
  BorderColor black
  BackgroundColor red
}

Component [SORA mainnet]
interface "Federated\nbridge" as FB

cloud {
  [SORA parachain] as SP
  [Relay chain\n(Polkadot/Kusama)] as RC
  interface "XCM" as XCM1
  interface "XCM" as XCM2
  [Other parachains] as OP
}

[SORA mainnet] - FB
FB - SP
SP - XCM1
XCM1 - RC
RC - XCM2
XCM2 - OP
@enduml

```

</details>

Let's go through all the components mentioned in the figure:

### SORA mainnet

A standalone network developed on top of the Substrate blockchain is the main object of this documentation. It has all the incoming and outgoing messages to other systems crossing the **Federated Bridge**, which is a central gateway to an external ecosystem.

### Federated Bridge

> You can read about the Federated Bridge in [Interoparibility](./interoperability).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can read about the Federated Bridge in [Interoperability](./interoperability).
```

### SORA parachain

> The SORA Parachain serves as a blockchain gateway, allowing seamless integration between SORA and any relay chain ecosystem. It facilitates automatic token transfers, eliminating the need for users to send tokens via extrinsics on the SORA Parachain. By design, the SORA Parachain eliminates the requirement for additional transaction signing. The Parachain maintains a comprehensive record of tokens that can be transferred, with registration information stored in the XCMApp pallet. This information includes the mapping between SORA Mainnet AssetId and XCM Multilocation for each token.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The SORA parachain serves as a blockchain gateway, allowing seamless integration between SORA and any relay chain ecosystem. It facilitates automatic token transfers, eliminating the need for users to send tokens via extrinsics on the SORA parachain. 
By design, the SORA parachain eliminates the requirement for additional transaction signing. The parachain maintains a comprehensive record of tokens that can be transferred, with registration information stored in the XCMApp pallet. This information includes the mapping between the SORA mainnet AssetId and XCM Multilocation for each token.
```

Reviewer 2: Just like network is not part of the name in SORA network (lowcase), we should write SORA parachain

### Parachains

Parachains are specialized blockchains that connect to the relay chain. They can have their own consensus mechanisms, governance models, and specific functionality. They rely on the relay chain for security and the ability to interact with other parachains within the ecosystem. As the name suggests, the SORA parachain is also a parachain within this architecture.

::: warning

The execution of XCM transfers and the handling of incoming messages will vary between different chains. Each connected parachain should have its own dedicated reference in the documentation, specifically detailing the implementation in client applications. This reference should specify the exact version of the XCM message being used, as well as the junctions utilized and populated.

:::

## Flows

Delving into the details of cross-chain transfers, you can consult the following top-level diagrams that illustrate the various directional flows:

### SORA to Parachain

![](./.gitbook/assets/FederatedBridgeFlowSoraToParachain.png)

### Parachain to SORA

![](./.gitbook/assets/FederatedBridgeFlowParachainToSora.png)

## Common Pallets

> There are several common pallets used in the SORA project, providing bridge functionality on both the parachain and Sora Mainnet sides:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are several common pallets used in the SORA project, providing bridge functionality on both the parachain and SORA mainnet sides:
```

### SORA Mainnet Pallets

On the SORA Mainnet side, the following pallets are used:

- **ParachainBridgeApp**: Developed by SORAMITSU ([GitHub link](https://github.com/sora-xor/sora2-common/tree/develop/pallets/parachain-app)). This pallet serves as the main entry point for clients to send assets through the bridge. It also sends messages to the parachain (**XCMApp**) to register assets. The bridge requires bonding of **ParachainBridgeApp** on the Mainnet and **XCMApp** on the Parachain. It utilizes SubstrateBridgeOutboundChannel to send messages through the bridge and is used by **SubstrateDispatch** to execute messages.

Root extrinsics: `finalizeAssetRegistration`, `registerThischainAsset`, `registerSidechainAsset`, `addAssetIdParaId`, `removeAssetIdParaId`, `mint`.
Extrinsic to be called by user: `burn`.

- **Assets**: Developed by SORAMITSU ([GitHub link](https://github.com/sora-xor/sora2-network/tree/master/pallets/assets)). This pallet implements assets on the SORA 2 Mainnet. It is used by **ParachainBridgeApp** to register, mint, and burn assets.

### SORA Parachain Components

> On the SORA Parachain side, the following components are used:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On the SORA parachain side, the following components are used:
```

### SORA Parachain Components

On the SORA parachain side, the following components are used:

- **XCMApp**: Developed by SORAMITSU ([source code](https://github.com/sora-xor/sora2-parachain/tree/develop/pallets/xcm-app)). This pallet establishes the connection between the SORA 2 Mainnet and a relay chain/parachain. It maintains a mapping from the SORA 2 Mainnet AssetId (a 32-byte array) to a general XCM Multilocation. It enables the transfer of assets between SORA 2 Mainnet and a relay chain/parachain. Only the bridge origin can access the pallet's extrinsics. It utilizes **SubstrateBridgeOutboundChannel** to send messages through the bridge and is used by **SubstrateDispatch** to execute messages.

- **XTokens**: Developed by the Open Web3 Stack ([source code](https://github.com/open-web3-stack/open-runtime-module-library)). This component is used by **XCMApp** to send tokens to a relay chain/parachains.

- **XCMExecutor**: Developed by Parity. While not a pallet, it is a crucial component for executing XCM Messages. It utilizes **XCMApp** as a transactor and AssetId converter.

### Federated Bridge Pallets

The Federated Bridge in SORA relies on the following pallets:

> - **BridgeDataSigner**: Developed by SORAMITSU ([source code](https://github.com/sora-xor/sora2-common/tree/develop/pallets/data-signer)). This pallet is responsible for collecting signatures from different relayers and checks that message is signed by valid peer.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **BridgeDataSigner**: Developed by SORAMITSU ([source code](https://github.com/sora-xor/sora2-common/tree/develop/pallets/data-signer)). This pallet is responsible for collecting signatures from different relayers and checks that message is signed by a valid peer.
```

> # Substrate bridge

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
# Substrate Bridge
```

@WRRicht3r  we wanted this capitalization of headers, right? if so, other headers on this page should also be adjusted

Author: https://github.com/sora-xor/sora-docs/pull/44/commits/68061e9672b3b9d53bb121bab32594d8a4e26724

### Parachain to SORA

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    actor A as Alice
    participant P as Parachain
    participant R as Relayer
    participant S as SORA

    A ->> P: Send tokens via XCM¹
    P ->> P: Add message to commitment
    P ->> R: Prepare commitment
    R ->> R: Sign commitment
    R ->> P: Approve commitment
    P ->> R: Get signatures
    R ->> S: Submit commitment
    S ->> A: Mint/Send tokens
```

_¹ The assets can originate from various sources, including other parachains or the Relay Chain, and the resulting action (reserve or burn) on the source chain is dependent on its specific implementation (typically initiated by calling either `xcmPallet.reserveTransferAssets` or `xTokens.transfer`). Ultimately, SORA parachain remains unaware of the final outcome, as it only receives an XCM message that will be subsequently relayed to the mainnet._

## Common Pallets

There are several common pallets used in the SORA project, providing bridge functionality on both the parachain and SORA mainnet sides:

> - **SubstrateDispatch**: Developed by SORAMITSU ([GitHub link](https://github.com/sora-xor/sora2-common/tree/develop/pallets/dispatch)). This pallet decodes and checks messages, performs runtime calls, and creates a bridge origin to execute **XCMApp** and **ParachainBridgeApp** extrinsics. Only the bridge origin can call these extrinsics.
> 
> - **SubstrateBridgeInboundChannel**: Developed by SORAMITSU ([GitHub link](https://github.com/sora-xor/sora2-common/tree/develop/pallets/substrate-channel/src/inbound)). This pallet handles the submission of incoming messages. While submitting messages can be called from any account, a relayer is used for this function. It utilizes **BeefyLightClient** or **MultisigVerifier** for message verification and **SubstrateDispatch** for message calling.
> 
> - **SubstrateBridgeOutboundChannel**: Developed by SORAMITSU ([GitHub link](https://github.com/sora-xor/sora2-common/tree/develop/pallets/substrate-channel/src/outbound)). This pallet is responsible for sending outgoing messages. It is used by the **ParachainBridgeApp** and **XCMApp** to send messages to other networks.

Reviewer 3: I think you can just say `source code`. You just need something more specific/descriptive than just `GitHub link`.

please also note that if you apply this suggestion, there are several similar instances below where you need to apply the same change as here (for other pallets)

```suggestion
- **SubstrateDispatch**: Developed by SORAMITSU ([source code](https://github.com/sora-xor/sora2-common/tree/develop/pallets/dispatch)). This pallet decodes and checks messages, performs runtime calls, and creates a bridge origin to execute **XCMApp** and **ParachainBridgeApp** extrinsics. Only the bridge origin can call these extrinsics.

- **SubstrateBridgeInboundChannel**: Developed by SORAMITSU ([source code](https://github.com/sora-xor/sora2-common/tree/develop/pallets/substrate-channel/src/inbound)). This pallet handles the submission of incoming messages. While submitting messages can be called from any account, a relayer is used for this function. It utilizes **BeefyLightClient** or **MultisigVerifier** for message verification and **SubstrateDispatch** for message calling.

- **SubstrateBridgeOutboundChannel**: Developed by SORAMITSU ([source code](https://github.com/sora-xor/sora2-common/tree/develop/pallets/substrate-channel/src/outbound)). This pallet is responsible for sending outgoing messages. It is used by the **ParachainBridgeApp** and **XCMApp** to send messages to other networks.
```

Author: Added as part of https://github.com/sora-xor/sora-docs/pull/44/commits/984d2210d8c1c290205c8b1c357a61816a71155a

### SORA Parachain Components

On the SORA parachain side, the following components are used:

- **XCMApp**: Developed by SORAMITSU ([source code](https://github.com/sora-xor/sora2-parachain/tree/develop/pallets/xcm-app)). This pallet establishes the connection between the SORA 2 Mainnet and a relay chain/parachain. It maintains a mapping from the SORA 2 Mainnet AssetId (a 32-byte array) to a general XCM Multilocation. It enables the transfer of assets between SORA 2 Mainnet and a relay chain/parachain. Only the bridge origin can access the pallet's extrinsics. It utilizes **SubstrateBridgeOutboundChannel** to send messages through the bridge and is used by **SubstrateDispatch** to execute messages.

- **XTokens**: Developed by the Open Web3 Stack ([source code](https://github.com/open-web3-stack/open-runtime-module-library)). This component is used by **XCMApp** to send tokens to a relay chain/parachains.

- **XCMExecutor**: Developed by Parity. While not a pallet, it is a crucial component for executing XCM Messages. It utilizes **XCMApp** as a transactor and AssetId converter.

### Federated Bridge Pallets

The Federated Bridge in SORA relies on the following pallets:

> - **BridgeDataSigner**: Developed by SORAMITSU ([source code](https://github.com/sora-xor/sora2-common/tree/develop/pallets/data-signer)). This pallet is responsible for signing bridge data.

Reviewer 4: Actually relayer sign the messages. `BridgeDataSigner` is responsible for collecting signatures from different relayers and checks that message is signed by valid peer

Author: https://github.com/sora-xor/sora-docs/pull/44/commits/00011f60d0a4fab97bd85e4b2f00d825757bf116

Root extrinsics: `registerNetwork`, `addPeer`, `removePeer`, `submit`.
Messages: see [`BridgeCall` enum](https://github.com/sora-xor/sora2-common/blob/2f0aeec218e7646c295f371c4f553f4260e59eff/pallets/types/src/substrate.rs#L126)

> - **MultisigVerifier**: Developed by SORAMITSU ([source code](https://github.com/sora-xor/sora2-common/tree/develop/pallets/multisig-verifier)). This pallet manages the verification of peers and ECDSA signatures. It utilizes BeefyLightClient for message verification and SubstrateDispatch for message calling.

Reviewer 4: InboundChannel uses this pallet or BeefyLightClient for message verification and SubstrateDispatch to decode and dispatch bridge Calls. And this pallet works independently from BeefyLightClient and SubstrateDispatch

Author: https://github.com/sora-xor/sora-docs/pull/44/commits/9095bec9d7390c3bf87566337af4c2608f17b90c

Root extrinsics: `initialize`, `addPeer`, `removePeer`.

- **The Relayer**: Developed by SORAMITSU ([GitHub link](https://github.com/sora-xor/sora2-network/tree/master/relayer)). The Relayer is a separate service and not a pallet. It plays a crucial role in the Federated Bridge, passing through messages and holding private keys for signatures, similar to the Beefy bridge implementation.

## Guides

### Transfers

::: warning

> Only specific XCM messages for/from the corresponding networks have been tested and utilised in the client applications, such as Polkaswap. When constructing your own messages, exercise caution - there is a possibility that your funds could be permanently lost.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Only specific XCM messages for/from the corresponding networks have been tested and utilised in the client applications, such as Polkaswap. When constructing your own messages, exercise caution: there is a possibility that your funds could be permanently lost.
```

:::

#### SORA mainnet -> Relaychain / Other Prachain

To execute a cross-chain token transfer, a registration process is required beforehand. Token registration involves using the root extrinsics `ParachainBridgeApp.registerSidechainAsset` and `ParachainBridgeApp.registerThischainAsset`. For instance, to register a native token on the Rococo network, the following procedure is followed:

![Image: Example of registering a Rococo native token](./assets/sidechain-token-registration.png)

Similarly, to register a native token from another blockchain as transferable through a parachain, the process is as follows:

![Image: Example of registering a native blockchain for transfer via parachain](./assets/thischain-token-registration.png)

These extrinsics send messages to the SORA 2 Parachain, enabling the registration of asset mappings. Without this registration, tokens cannot be transferred through the parachain.

> Once the token is successfully registered, transfers can be initiated. To transfer a token to a relaychain, the extrinsic ParachainBridgeApp.burn is used. For instance, to transfer a ROC token to the Rococo relay chain, the following procedure is followed:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once the token is successfully registered, transfers can be initiated. To transfer a token to a relaychain, the extrinsic `ParachainBridgeApp.burn` is used. For instance, to transfer a ROC token to the Rococo relay chain, the following procedure is followed:
```

![Image: Example of transferring ROC to the Rococo relay chain](./assets/token-burn.png)

To specify a parachain as the transfer destination, the following request needs to be made:

![Image: Example of indicating a parachain as the transfer target](./assets/transfer-to-parachain.png)

By following these steps, cross-chain transfers can be successfully executed, allowing for seamless movement of tokens between different chains within the network.

> ### How to track the status of the transfer?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### How to track the status of the transfer
```

#### Other Parachain -> SORA mainnet

> Example extrinsic: https://polkadot.js.org/apps/?rpc=wss%3A%2F%2Fws.karura-node-1.c2.dev.sora2.soramitsu.co.jp#/extrinsics/decode/0x3600008000407a10f35a00000000000000000000010102006d1f0100e6cacc509b47920b3fe9329224df74640cd6861d40132633aae46c168ab73e4d00

Reviewer 4: I think we should not share private dev environment enpoints in docs

Author: https://github.com/sora-xor/sora-docs/pull/44/commits/d668f091ec53b2338324515c5a5be1d2a19302fe

##### Karura dev -> SORA mainnet dev example

> 1. Karura: After executing the extrinsic mentioned above, the xcmpQueue.XcmpMessageSent event is emitted.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Karura: After executing the extrinsic mentioned above, the `xcmpQueue.XcmpMessageSent` event is emitted.
```
